# Bandwidth Utilization

## MULTIPLEXING
Multiplexing is the set of techniques that allow the simultaneous transmission of multiple signals across a single data link.

There are three basic multiplexing techniques: 
- frequency-division multiplexing,
- wavelength-division multiplexing,
- and time-division multiplexing.

The first two are techniques designed for analog signals, the third, for digital signals

### Frequency-Division Multiplexing
Frequency-division multiplexing (FDM) is an analog technique that can be applied when the bandwidth of a link (in hertz) is greater than the combined bandwidths of the signals to be transmitted.
signals generated by each sending device mod late different carrier frequencies. These modulated signals are then combined into a single composite signal that can be transported by the link

#### Multiplexing Process
Each source generates a signal of a similar frequency range. Inside the multiplexer, these similar signals
modulate different carrier frequencies.The resulting modulated signals are then combined into a single composite signal that is sent out over a media link that has enough bandwidth to accommodate it.

#### Demultiplexing Process
The demultiplexer uses a series of filters to decompose the multiplexed signal into its constituent component signals.The individual signals are then passed to a demodulator that separates them from their carriers and passes them to the output lines.

### Wavelength-Division Multiplexing
Wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM) is designed to use the high-data-rate capability of fiber-optic cable.

WDM is conceptually the same as FDM, except that the multiplexing and demultiplexing involve optical signals transmitted through fiber-optic channels. The idea is the same: We are combining different signals of different frequencies. The difference is that the frequencies are very high.


### Time-Division Multiplexing

Time-division multiplexing (TDM) is a digital process that allows several connections to share the high bandwidth of a link.TDM is a digital multiplexing technique for combining several low-rate channels into one high-rate one.We can divide TDM into two different schemes:
- synchronous TDM:ach input connection has an allotment in the output even if it is not sending data.
- statistical TDM



#### Statistical Time-Division Multiplexing
In statistical time-division multiplexing, slots are dynamically allocated to improve bandwidth efficiency. Only when an input line has a slot’s worth of data to send is it given a slot in the output frame. In statistical multiplexing, the number of slots in each frame is less than the number of input lines.The multiplexer checks each input line in round-robin fashion;it allocates a slot for an input line if the line has data to send; otherwise, it skips the line and checks the next line


## SPREAD SPECTRUM
In spread spectrum(SS), we also combine signals from different sources to fit into a larger bandwidth, but
  goals are somewhat different. Spread spectrum is designed to be used in wireless applications (LANs and WANs).















